Okay, Georgi Dinkov, Ray Peat, we were just talking about redundancy, prepping, and being
prepared for a future where they kick you out of the financial system, tell you you
can't go to the grocery store, and what else, Ray?
What else will we not be allowed to do in the future?
Basically, anything that spends money.
And then, I mean, we're talking about prepping for a momentary thing, but if you're kicked
out of the financial system for life, there's
gonna have to be a rise, new kind of alternative ways of exchange, correct?
David Morgan Yeah, a lot of people are getting silver,
and gold doesn't work too well for daily exchanges because you'd have to chop it up
into tiny pieces. But silver is convenient as a practical currency.
Excuse my ignorance, but how would that even work?
Like, would the person know how much an ounce
or a tiny amount of gold would be valued at in exchange?
Yeah, but that with gold involves a certain amount
of trust that the person doesn't have some strange ally that is pawning off.
But silver is very practical in the sense that you can carry enough in your pocket to
feed yourself for quite a few days, and it's identifiable as silver rather than other things.
And then isn't in Klaus's book, I have not read the book, unfortunately, but I think he says and it's identifiable as silver rather than other things.
And then isn't in Klaus's book, I have not read the book, unfortunately, but I think
he says people will live outside the smart cities and things like that. So that alternative
economy, I mean, even the people pulling these heists are recognizing that that is going
to be a thing.
What is it going to be?
Not everybody is going to live in the smart cities with the identifications and things
like that.
Yeah, probably 70 or 80% of the people will just do whatever the government
tells them to. But if 10 or 10 or 20% of the people set up an outside economy,
it'll work.
And then Georgie interrupted any moment here. then, I mean, this is the last show of the year, you know.
What, without getting too, like, maybe an elevator pitch,
like, what, is there anything that sticks out in your mind
is, like, phenomenally important or too many things
that stick out in your mind?
Like, what are your thoughts on 2021?
About this past year?
Yeah, just everything that happened.
Just horrifying in general?
past year? Yeah, just everything that happened. Just horrifying in general?
Yeah. And the solutions are being hidden from all ends of the political spectrum. Everyone is being taught that the other end of the spectrum is out to get them. And it's really only the one hundredth of one percent which is out to get
everyone else.
The people that Hillary and Obama called the deplorables, they are just as much ready for
an actual solution and radical change as the people who think of themselves as the vanguard
and most progressive.
When I was picking up a bunch of packages, there was an art studio next to that. And
the woman kind of told me to come in the art studio and we got to talking. And then her
husband came and we inevitably started talking about COVID. And each both of them in Mexico
had three vaccines. And one was from England and the other one was from Israel. And then
we and the husband and I started talking because he
reads research and he when we were talking, he had to put me in a partisan
box like he couldn't. He had to label me as like a Trump supporter to to
entertain anything I was saying, even though I was telling him that I haven't
voted since Bush. Kerry. But like it was he was like unable to entertain any
idea outside of partisan politics, but he was English.
It wasn't even American. It was very odd.
What nationality?
He was from London and his wife wife was from Israel.
Yeah. English are more obedient than Americans.
And then the thing I've been running into any time I talk to a normal person about this is that coronavirus is so dangerous that anything is worth however tyrannical the
implementation is it's worth it because coronavirus is the most dangerous thing
we've ever experienced in our lifetime. Yeah that really is if people should
just start looking at some of the facts. Have you heard any of Norman Fenton's
no talks about these statistics. He's a professor at
Queen's University in London, statistical practical questions, and all of
his papers used to be published until he decided to look at the actual figures
for mortality and what the virus is doing. And any time you look at the actual
deaths from the so-called pandemic, what they did was simply rename influenza and several
other major causes of seasonal death, simply renamed them COVID, and it had the miraculous effect of ending
death from influenza around the world for a couple of years.
But essentially, just looking at the one or two weeks figures for when there's a gigantic
surge in deaths from COVID, there's a gigantic disappearance of deaths from influenza.
Just looking at that one fact coming out of the CDC
and other government agencies,
the only thing you can conclude is
never was a COVID pandemic.
People have had coronavirus colds hundreds of years and that's all it is. It's
renaming any respiratory-related sickness and even all sorts of other things as COVID just to
create panic. So I'm starting to question even the influenza. How did they know before in the
past when we had the 60 to 80,000 deaths in the United States from the flu, how did they know before in the past when we had the 60 to 80 thousand deaths in the United States from the flu, how did they know
these were from the flu? They didn't test them with the PCR test?
Yeah, just a few years ago people asked that question and the CDC said well it
might not have really been 60,000 deaths this year, but it was at least 1,200 caused by the influenza virus.
Well, how about we call them iatrogenic deaths? Because one thing is certain,
these people died in the hospitals, right? Yeah.
So maybe that's all it is. Every year, we have at least 60 to 80,000 people dying in the hospital,
showing up with respiratory symptoms, but ultimately they died in the care of these
doctors. I mean, I don't know of many people they died in the care of these doctors.
I mean, I don't know of many people who died from the flu at home.
Yeah.
And once you see the terrible emptiness of the government figures regarding coronavirus,
that might make you wonder, what about the other vaccines?
Did the polio vaccine really cure polio, or did suddenly polio disappear to be replaced
by almost identical numbers of Guillain-Barré paralysis and other paralytic diseases?
The vaccine cured the named paralysis but didn't cure the incidence of paralytic disease.
Do you think this Kien-Biarré syndrome has its origin in the gastrointestinal tract,
some kind of inflammatory reaction there?
Yeah, the poliovirus and all of the 30s, a gastroenterologist was experimenting with distemper in dogs and
he could give them an infection and then cut them open and see what was happening.
And in the early stages of the distemper sickness where they classified it as a respiratory disease.
All that was happening was virus infection of the intestine and reflexes from the intestine
were causing the respiratory symptoms but the respiratory tissues were absolutely free
of virus at the peak of the disease, it was all intestinal infection causing reflex
inflammation of the lungs and respiratory system.
And that seems to be how a lot of the viruses work.
They first make your intestine permeable to bacteria and toxins and then it's the sepsis
that triggers the inflammatory cytokine storm sort of thing.
So this reflux pneumonia which they prepare for during surgery, they give people anti-acid
drugs so basically we're seeing that in all of the, you're saying we're seeing this in
the other paralytic conditions, it can happen even without surgery?
Can happen without.
So when people lie on the operating table, they usually before that they give them these
strong anti-acid drugs because they're afraid that they're going to reflux and it's going
to get into their lungs and cause pneumonia.
But you're saying that we can have this even without the surgery?
Yeah, there have been some very clear studies in which people who recover slowly from surgery or who die following complications
after surgery, what's happening is the stress of the surgery made their intestine permeable
to the toxins that are not being suppressed by active digestion.
And if they clean their intestine for two or three days thoroughly with antibiotics
before going into surgery, just about 100% of them have no surgical stress complications
following the cutting.
So I guess it would be a good regimen if somebody's about to have surgery, even if it's not abdominal,
if it's going to be a long-time surgery, just sterilize the intestine anyways.
Yeah, even if the doctors aren't, if they don't read the literature, the person should
take laxatives and make sure their hormones are good, have a very fibrous diet for several
days before surgery, get a clean flow going through.
Speaking of fiber, I actually wanted to talk about oat bran.
And so a long time ago, you know, somebody asked you, like, what were the safest grains? And I think you said mazahirana
oats and maybe one other thing I can't remember. But is you using oat bran? Is that more of
an intestinal disinfectant or is it a source of carbohydrate for you?
The oat bran, I read that a cup of the cooked stuff, it's fairly filling and so a cup is a big serving
but it has only 88 calories for regular oatmeal as maybe 250 or so for the same
thing. So it does provide some carbohydrates but it's strongly buffered
by the presence of a higher fiber content and studies in animals showed that over a
long run, you might have to worry about some of the breakdown products of the soluble fibers
that can have an estrogenic effect but in the short run, up to a year or so, its effect is a matter of the bulk and acceleration
of the intestines, so it has an anti-estrogen effect
for people who have been reabsorbing the estrogen
that their liver tries to excrete.
So would you still use the carrot
when you had a O'Brien in the morning or something?
Yeah, and for someone, occasionally someone
has an oversensitive intestine
and the carrot is too powerfully stimulating
and can cause a headache or diarrhea
or other intestinal reactions.
So the oat bran is milder. Mushrooms are
sort of in between. It depends on how you, if you grind them or chop them fairly
fine, they are an effective but fairly mild fiber. Bamboo shoots are very, very high fiber content. So a little of it has
a strong effect in helping to clean up your intestine.
I will say, opium as a breakfast, I really don't know much better than that.
It's so easy to make, it takes like a minute and even like a fourth a cup
seems really filling. So it's like...
Yeah, and if you put the right amount of butter and salt when you're cooking, it's really
extremely pleasant.
With milk.
Exactly.
Yeah, milk, butter and sugar.
And then, but you did mention, and the whole internet knows this, but it contains phytic
acid so you'd want to have more calcium.
Or if you made it with milk, do you think that would balance it out?
Some studies say that it just about negates the value of the milk you have with it.
So you probably have to eat extra milk more than you would think.
But two quarts of milk will take care of just about anything.
And then I think even a fourth of a cup might have had like 500 milligrams of phosphorus
in it, So that is
just adding to kind of the daily phosphorus intake. Yeah. So you
really need a lot of milk to balance it. Great stuff. And
Georgie interrupt me at any point in time. But you know, I
just moved into a new place. And I've been scanning my environment
for things that might be inflammatory or toxic. And so I
have some in IRA I emailed you about a bed, you know, because I
fingers crossed, I'm here for a bed, you know, because I, fingers crossed I'm here
for a long time.
But like just open question to you,
if you were to move into a house
with all the new technologies and things,
what do you think would be the first things
that you would deem as a huge problem and try to mitigate?
If it has computer stuff, I would wire,
they call it ethernet cable connections
between all of the parts instead of Wi-Fi.
And what about grounding equipment? So I've been spending lots of time with speaker wire
and taking the prongs out of plugs and wrapping them around and plugging them into grounds.
You think, so I have a bunch of equipment on the desk right now. Should I try or should
a person try to ground everything metal in their environment? Check if you have a field meter.
Check whether your monitor is putting out a big field.
My Macintosh monitor had a huge field
and was very hot, so I just bought a different monitor.
I have a grounding pad, but it didn't affect the Macintosh
monitor enough to bother with.
What's the more effective strategy, grounding every item and yourself, or is it more important
for yourself to be grounded, or what?
Only if it has big fields you're sure is reaching out two or three feet beyond the monitor or your keyboard.
But when you have things connected by the wires, your general environment is much reduced.
And then similar question, you mentioned maybe, I don't know, four or five years ago about
grounding a person's bed. Can you maybe explain that a little bit more if you think that's
something important? Probably going barefoot in Mexico the temperatures is
good enough that you can walk barefoot outside anytime you feel like it. And
even in town people are gonna look at you if you walk barefoot down the
sidewalk but there's no law against
it. And the daytime contact with the earth, I think, is enough to get you through the
night without grounding. But you can get sheets and bedding that have copper wires woven into
the fabric and a connection to put a wire to ground. And theoretically, that
protects you considerably from the, if you have 60 cycle or 50 cycle electricity in your
environment.
And what's like the bioenergetic perspective of being grounded? Like what, what exactly
does that even do? They talk about it as a sort of a buffer
to the electrons that are being produced metabolically.
And if you take a piece of skin,
people vary according to their metabolic rate
and thyroid function,
but you can put a piece of skin in the culture dish and it will keep
projecting a static field into the surrounding space.
If you put cyanide in the culture dish, stopping respiration, the electrical field collapses
and washing the cyanide out, the field comes back. And so people are in effect bristling with their own, it's
like a static field, an electret is what you call it when it's established in wax or plastic.
For a long time they had electret needles for phonograph pickups and instead of electromagnetic, it was a piece
of ceramic or plastic that had a static electrical field implanted in the plastic or ceramic
as it was hardening and that polarized system of electrons projects the field permanently so that if you vibrate that
piece of plastic, it creates an electrical current.
So it's just a variation on electromagnetic pickups.
But it's a very powerful phenomenon that if you're handling plastic bottles, for example, sometimes it will mess up the ability
to control the fluid that you want to get out of the bottle because the plastic has
such a strong electrical field built into it.
And we are being a soft, flexible material. material, we have to generate that structure and field momentarily by
respiring, and that in an isolated environment that could lead to influences
backwards from our environment to our metabolism. And supposedly if you ground
yourself, that keeps the extraneous charges from interfering
with your own biological generation of that electret-like static field.
Very interesting.
So instead of grounding yourself, wouldn't taking a hefty dosage of quinones like methylene
blue or vitamin K would have a similar effect?
That keeps you oxidizing it. That's protective internally,
but the grounding people emphasize that it's protective,
at least in some circumstances,
to make sure you aren't being surrounded
by the wrong kind of electrical charge.
Oh, this is from like, if you're submerged
in a static field because of electric devices
or things like that
That's that that's what the grounding protects from
Yeah
That was my next question because I I forgot what the experiment was but somebody on YouTube
Showed that when they were grounded
I can't remember how they did this but they showed that the EMF was less intense or something that and that
Made me more interested in it after hearing that. Yeah, I
repeated those experiments and You can see the change.
Your body, when I was doing electrical stimulation
experiments, I tried to set up things to detect
the internal electrical behavior of tissues and organisms,
but I found that putting a strong detector on my animal or my tissue
or myself, we got the rock music radio station. No matter what tissue we were
trying to examine, the radio station was so powerful it it was swamping all of the intrinsic biological signals.
That's like a low-level EMF device that you were using, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, so it's probably way worse now.
Before I ever supplemented thyroid, I think it was 1976 that I first decided to go ahead with my intuition because before that, I knew that
I had the hypothyroid signs, the classical things except that my metabolic rate was very
high.
Just at rest, I was burning about 4,000 calories and in a BMR test, I was two or three hundred percent above normal
oxygen consumption and that delayed me for several years from believing that I could
be hypothyroid.
But anyway, when I took thyroid, suddenly my metabolic energy went down towards normal but in the few years before I took thyroid, being around lab
instruments of various sorts, I was able to see that that high internal
metabolism was causing me to have extremely exaggerated projection of
charge fields around me. So that in lab where we had to use an electronic
stimulator to produce a certain voltage to stimulate cells, if I reached towards
it, got within the foot of it to adjust a knob, the machine would just suddenly run
off scale and go full force and as I pulled my hand away, it would go back
sort of like the theremin music instrument that you adjust the pitch
according to your position of your hand. But I had to always have my lab partner
operate the machine because my hand made it malfunction and anything electrical tended to be disturbed. Even a
cosmic ray cloud chamber, the ionization behavior of the humid atmosphere was cleared up
by this field that extended about a foot to a foot and a half beyond my body.
So the people who basically tend to get shocked very often for no apparent reason, is it fair
to say that they have very high rate of metabolism but the electrons are not getting paired properly
with oxygen so they build up and they sort of create this field?
Yeah, I think so.
So when you are taking thyroid, what happened, I mean I guess it lowered your stress hormones
so your metabolic rate went down?
Yeah, I've seen it in three or four other men about the same age and they're 30s usually
who no matter how much they ate couldn't put on weight.
They would often be 120 or 30 pounds for a standard height but if they took thyroid, suddenly their ability
to build muscle and fat with a normal amount of food was restored.
When you're hypothyroid, I think the mechanism is that your cells lose the ability to constantly
retain magnesium and so if the cells lose magnesium chronically,
they run their energy apparatus to the magnesium allows the ATP to accumulate and if you can't
accumulate the ATP, you have to make it constantly and the thyroid supplement I think is letting you retain the necessary magnesium to stabilize
the ATP so you can turn off the production periodically.
So these people basically have upper glycolysis to produce the necessary ATP through the less
efficient means if thyroid is not available.
Yeah and that's where the symptoms and deterioration come in.
So it's very wasteful of food to have that happen but it keeps things working very nicely.
What about the people who put on weight too easily?
What's the explanation there?
Again in terms of low thyroid or?
Yeah, just low thyroid is not running the machine fast enough.
Who do you say is in a worse position, a person who puts on weight easily or cannot put on
weight no matter how much they eat?
The people I've known, like myself, were very energetic and healthy, but they just couldn't
put on weight no matter how much they eat.
Okay, but this is still stress metabolism, right?
Because thyroid wasn't functioning properly.
Well, it was as long as it was able to use the energy
and make ATP, it didn't have to resort
to other sources to make ATP.
So in those hypermetabolic states, there's not necessarily any glycolysis going on.
And what was keeping your metabolic rate so high if thyroid wasn't optimal?
I think a diet that was heavy on phosphate, not enough calcium and magnesium. People have experimented with the allergy patients found that the active thyroid hormone
let you retain magnesium if you were given it but without the T3, you could put the magnesium
in and they would work perfectly for a few days and then they would lose the magnesium. So taking a supplement of magnesium can temporarily moderate your metabolism so you don't have
that hyper metabolic reaction to low thyroid.
But you have to keep taking it over and over because you lose it quickly without the ATP?
Yeah.
The doctors experimenting on their patients found that just one or two intravenous doses
was enough to work for a week, but then they could take it orally and keep their magnesium
up and their allergies down.
Maybe you mentioned a few years ago, with good thyroid function, you could even get,
I don't know, what was it, like 200 milligrams of magnesium that would be sufficient like some people on the internet take like a
thousand or two thousand milligrams every day? Yeah the body when it's deficient can suck up
and retain a fairly modest amount from your food supply but if your thyroid is low then
you have to worry about the constant supply of generous magnesium.
So in keeping, thanks for that, in keeping with our anti-non-toxic, anti-inflammatory
home, probably, I don't know, was it 2018, I emailed you about a home air purifier and
you told me you had the Mystic Marvels device and so I immediately bought that and experimented
with it. And so that's, one, like what is a negative ion generator and why is it useful?
The majority of the careful studies have found that the serotonin disposition is increased
immediately by negative ions in the air in particular because the lungs are the main, the liver does it but the lungs have the first
access to the circulating platelets carrying serotonin produced by stress and irritation
inflammation.
So if your lungs need a boost of energy to detoxify that circulating stress-related serotonin. The electrons
delivered on error ions participate directly in the monoamino oxidase
reaction to eliminate it. And some of the studies show that the blood level of
serotonin is decreased as you have more ionized negative air.
So just having that around you, especially in the evening time, like maybe next to your
bed would be a good way to not go extremely hypometabolic during the nighttime.
Yeah.
Amazing.
Okay.
I think very high altitude, the ultraviolet in the air is intense enough to give you a steady supply of negative ions.
Why do you think, some people email me studies showing that there's an increased risk of
suicide at altitude.
What do you think is responsible for that?
I looked at many of the countries around the world and that simply is a bad generalization.
It probably has to do with social economic conditions in Colorado, which they were looking at.
But when you look at Bangladesh and Tibet and Colombia and the low-lying Latin cultures,
there's absolutely no correlation.
In fact, the people living in the field have a much higher rate, right?
Yeah, generally the health is worse as your altitude is lower.
Every thousand feet of altitude where you live decreases heart disease, mortality, cancer, mortality, and
dementia.
You mentioned in some of your books about the extreme longevity in places like Azerbaijan
and like the Caucasus Mountains.
And there is this guy, I think his last name is Muslimov.
He used to he lived in the former Soviet Union.
He was an Azeri guy who had a passport showing that he was 160 some years old when he actually died.
I mean the altitude there is high, but it's not that high. He lived at an altitude of about 1800 meters.
So why, I mean, do you think there are studies that, have you seen studies that show that
even higher altitude like in the Himalayas for example the Sherpas that live there at
much higher altitude, are they living on average longer?
All the figures I've seen show that cancer and heart disease are consistently lower the
higher you live and osteoporosis is something very directly connected.
Your bones get stronger and teeth stay in longer.
So the altitude, I guess, is half of it and the other half is diet,
because that guy who lived to 168 ate mostly milk and a little bit of bread.
Yeah, that area, the dairy area, they got plenty of milk and cheese.
Yeah, he got married at the age of 140 and had children, apparently.
Azerbaijan is, you've mentioned them frequently, right? Yeah, he got married at the age of 140 and had children, apparently.
Azerbaijan is, you've mentioned them frequently, right?
They have, like, kind of the foods you recommend, isn't that right?
Like, historically?
Yeah, I've seen pictures of their meals.
They look very delicious.
Did you go there when you visited the Soviet Union?
No.
Amazing.
Okay, we'll give Ray a break here.
Let me do a little advertisement.
So the newsletter is available by email now.
It's $28, which can be paid through PayPal
to raypeatsnewsletter at gmail.com.
And Ray, if I heard you correctly,
you switch to how many times a month?
Four, I'm sorry, how many times a year?
Four times?
Four times a year, more or less quarterly.
So instead of a two-year subscription
with 12 issues total, it's now three years for $30 or one year for
$10 for four issues. I should address this. That's amazing. I don't know
how you kept up with the two month schedule. I think I would have quit doing that after
maybe, I don't know, a month or two. It's really amazing. For the first 20 years I was doing it
every month. Then the next 20, 21 years I did it every other month.
But part of the thing was that a bimonthly subscription,
people were confused and thought their subscription
was for one year because it was 12 issues
or didn't know what bimonthly meant.
And so they were constantly causing
email questioning
that too much time. I just lost it it was $30 for three years what was it? No $10
per year. Okay. So for the 12 issues that used to be $28 and now it comes to $30.
Okay got it okay got it. Okay and then also you can get your amazing books
Generative Energy from PMS to Menopause,
Mind and Tissue, and Nutrition for Women by emailing raypeatsnewsletter at gmail.com.
And you can get them in digital and some of them are available in paperback, correct?
Ray Peats Yeah, several are still available.
Ryan Clements And then Progest-E from Keenogen, you can
email Catherine to purchase keenogen at gmail.com.
And each bottle of Progest-E contains 3,400 milligrams of progesterone.
I just purchased 30 bottles, so thank you.
Ray, please tell Catherine I said thank you.
And then my plan is to mix that
with I purchased a lot of DHE from Bulk,
I think it was bulkpowder.com,
and I'll mix those together.
But Ray, any recent progesterone stories that you have?
No.
Do we talk about cycling the last time you were on?
How imperative that was for even
somebody...
For women, it's very important to the extent that their estrogen is still a problem, because
even small amounts of estrogen, if it's continuous and not interrupted, are carcinogenic eventually.
And so the cycling function of progesterone is to
thoroughly knock out the estrogen influence and let the tissue gather
itself together. It completely stops the estrogen cycle, carcinogenic cycle if
you interrupt it properly but when you take progesterone steadily without the interruption, your liver interprets
the constant high level of progesterone as being excessive and so anything your liver
experiences at a high level, it produces enzymes to excrete and so after two weeks, your liver has built up excretory enzymes
that inactivate the progesterone.
And so after two weeks, the effect of a given dose of progesterone is weaker and stopping
for at least a week lets your liver reset its threshold for excreting progesterone so
you get more for your money.
A couple of questions here.
First of all, if progesterone being a catotoxic steroid, it increases the amount of cytochrome
P450, the amount that is synthesized.
Isn't that in general a very good thing because you're going to be able to detox quite a few
other substances even though that will also detox the progesterone faster?
Yeah, it does have a general cleaning up effect.
Okay and then as far as the actual acceleration of the detox, wouldn't it be less of a problem
if the person took it topically because the liver will get like, because it will avoid
the first pass metabolism, the liver will have to deal with smaller amounts
per unit of time, so it wouldn't upregulate it as much.
It doesn't get it on the first pass anyway.
That happens with some drugs.
Progesterone and vitamin E being perfectly soluble
in the chylomitrons bypasses the liver many passes
until it is all distributed into your fat tissue, your
brain and everywhere that takes it up. But the chitomitrons are privileged to pass through
the liver without giving up their progesterone. So there's no first pass effect when you take
a progesterone in vitamin E.
And when you told the pharmaceutical rep that, he was not very happy to hear that?
Because you're explaining your patent, right?
The pharmaceutical rep came to your house and he was talking about purchasing it, maybe?
That was DHEA, actually.
And I told him examples of how it worked for three hours or so all afternoon.
And he said, that's all very interesting,
but that's not a good drug.
I didn't know this.
You had the DHA was dissolved in the vitamin E
and that's, so that's something you had.
I thought they were always mixed together
that you were giving me.
No, it was a second patent two years later.
Oh, interesting.
I think it's a testosterone, DHA,
and progesterone and pregnenolone, right?
I noticed they were separate. DHEA was a separate patent.
Oh, because I think I saw something about testosterone in vitamin E from you.
Yeah, I used to distribute that especially for arthritis in either men or women and I
wanted it so I didn't have to mix it special for each one so I put a functional amount of all
of them so there wouldn't be far out of balance for either men or women and applying it topically
or orally it was extremely effective for knocking out arthritis.
Rick Was testosterone not a controlled substance
back in the day?
I mean did FDA clamp down like like, started really regulating it recently?
Yeah, they got worse and worse.
Wow. Speaking of vitamin E, I've been meaning to ask you this for like 10 episodes now,
but what is the vitamin K itself and things I extracted from
liver and various quinones and putting them together, they formed a blackish-green, apparently
an oxidation process but putting dark blackish-green oil onto a paper chromatograph as the
solvent moves up to paper, it separated them back into the normal vitamin K and vitamin
E colors showing there was only a charge transfer but that in the body if you have a charge
transfer circulating in your blood that
becomes extremely sensitive to environmental light effects. So if a
person's gonna take vitamin K or vitamin E they should take them away from each
other right? Yeah, somewhat. Or not get exposed to bright sunlight or light for
the next few hours. Is riboflavin also subject to the same restriction of vitamin B2?
Oh, it's anything.
Blue light or ultraviolet will destroy riboflavin and cause mutations and inflammation in your
tissues where it happens.
If you take a lot of riboflavin, you want to stay out of the sun for a while.
Have you seen the patents Pfizer filed on, they call called photodynamic therapy with methylene blue and red light? Yeah but
that's to kill viruses basically. They also claim, I mean they patented
specifically for cancer, they're saying instead of giving you toxic drugs that
increase reactive oxygen species, we're just going to give you methylene blue and
then irradiate you and that will achieve the same reactive oxygen species generation which I think is dangerous, right?
Yeah, it's the same as most chemotherapies.
They hope it's more specific to the cancer than to your brain cells but it always kills
a lot of your brain cells.
If someone were in this day and age, especially the COVID, if they're really afraid of the
virus and they think they have it, would like a controlled version of this, let's say just
a few milligrams of methylene blue and some red light, would that be a good therapy, antiviral
therapy?
Only good in the sense that it's less toxic than some other things, but I wouldn't recommend
it.
What about for things like disinfecting water?
Put some methylene blue and then irradiate with red light.
Would that work?
It probably would leave some residues in the water
that would be unpredictable.
Okay.
Last thing about the negative ion generator,
because that dude, the Mystic Marvels guy,
he doesn't sell them anymore.
And so a buddy of mine sent him an email
and he recommended the W E I N Wayne wine V 2500 high density ionic air purifier. Do you have any opinion on that? Have you ever heard of it before?
No, but I would trust that guy. Yeah. No, what he's talking about. Yeah. So he stopped making it. He said it was just too much work.
Didn't he also say people were buying them near the coast and I was breaking them and And so they would make it and then it would they break and then they'd want to return
them or something.
But yeah, so this is the one he recommended for anybody that's interested.
And then again, we're really hopping around here.
But a lot of people are, myself included, are confused about the variants.
And so I remember the thing I remember that David E. Martin said was the variants you
could like take the sequence of the coronavirus and just cut it off at different places and
boom you have a new variant.
What is actually going on here?
It's like obviously they're not just perfectly fine.
The CDC just recently told the FDA that it could discontinue the use of PCR because it's
meaningless. discontinue the use of PCR because it's meaningless but the people who have been
promoting it either were completely ignorant about what a PCR is. In fact, a
lot of supposedly confident people were. When you use it to identify RNA
such as coronavirus, you have to make DNA from the RNA before you can run
the PCR using the DNA replicase or polymerase. And so the full name for the method is reverse
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. But for some reason, some people were calling it real-time PCR.
They thought it sounded like it was more effective or something, neglecting that
the RT refers to reverse transcriptase, which is an essential part of the
process. And almost no one advocating the test has any idea what goes on in multiplying the DNA
that you make from the RNA.
And it's a manufacturing process that depends on the particular little stretch of DNA that you choose to amplify and you choose a stretch of the DNA out of
whatever RNA you might have started with.
And so you have to trust that the RNA sample was actually meaningfully connected to the
virus, not to say anything about connected to the disease but connected to the virus and then that you chose a sequence to multiply and that in the process of
increasing the amount of RNA of that particular a bit of specimen that you
were actually replicating that DNA and not some random background material.
But they generally ran at 40 cycles where everyone recognized that beyond 25 cycles,
you were getting so many false positives, it was meaningless.
So there's nothing about the PCR test that has been used honestly, and it has very consistently been used fraudulently,
deliberately, by the government agencies
and a lot of their apologists.
But they, I mean, obviously Omicron and Delta,
these are just media, marketing campaigns.
Like these have, they can just create
an endless amount of variants
and then put them through the channels of marketing, right?
Right. Yeah.
Well, at what point a mutation creates a totally new,
what should I call it, family of viruses?
Can the coronavirus mutate to the point
where it becomes a completely different type,
like species of a virus?
It's no longer a coronavirus,
but let's say a rhinovirus or any other RNA virus?
Very unlikely, even under lab circumstances, it's hardly possible.
So many radical changes have to be done.
So wouldn't this mutation game eventually sort of like get exhausted?
Isn't that why we're starting to see this, now they're starting to hype up the avian
viruses, the swine flu again is propping up, maybe they're running out of options. The normal evolution of the virus is to get weaker and weaker and weaker, so it
has a better chance of surviving if it doesn't kill its host prematurely. And to
the extent that there is some knowledge about the Omicron version. It's very harmless, like a mild cold.
I heard you could get a myocarditis from the Omicron variant.
Is that true?
Yeah, you can get it from any virus.
Everything that they accuse the coronavirus of causing from these long COVID, like a heart
damage, lung damage, et cetera.
If you Google that with influenza,
you'll get at least 10 studies saying
that flu can cause it as well.
Yeah, I think long COVID is as questionable as short COVID.
Well, one last thing and then we can go into questions,
but medical nemesis Ivan Illich,
he says, modern medicine is a negation of health.
It isn't organized to serve human health,
but only itself as an institution. It makes more people sick than it heals. And this quote
was fresh in my mind after arguing with this guy, because arguing that English guy, arguing
the details with him was completely worthless, because if he didn't accept the foundation
that medical intervention was a long history of unscientific practices, we would never
get anywhere with talking about the details of anything. And so that, and again, all your work exemplifies that that is the big problem that these people have no,
maybe they do know what they're doing, but they're doing things in harmful ways to hurt people.
RKLMN Yeah, I've done some newsletters talking about the
events in American medicine in particular, starting around 1850,
when the American Medical Association
decided to take over the world.
They really were a very hostile group that wanted to,
racially, they saw herbalists
and other theories of healing, they saw them as inferior people.
Native Americans had some very effective techniques, but they connected it to racism.
Black people were excluded, and the practical medicine, a lot of it that had been brought from Africa, that was excluded.
And what was left was what has been called allopathic medicine, the use of a single chemical
to treat a single defined disease. defined disease and so it created an essentialist rather than an
environmentalist approach to disease and the treatment of it became a very
controllable one remedy for one disease and only the doctors were qualified to
name the disease and therefore to prescribe the one specific
chemical that would treat it.
A totally fraudulent, anti-scientific view from the ground up.
And the cures are worse than the disease, the burn, cut, poison strategies.
Yeah, and all that comes from the same essentialist thing that cancer is essentially not human material.
And all that can be done, because it has essentially changed its nature, is to kill it.
So the whole concept is to kill it, not to heal the person who happens to be producing that tumor. Sorry, go ahead. Just to refresh my memory of the centralism,
but that's like a immutable traits that can't change. Is that what that is?
Yeah, that a gene is immortal, that our properties,
our qualities are immortal, and they consist of the immortal genes.
Separate, something absolutely separate from our somatic cells, the germline, they created
an imaginary embryological history of developing the gonads.
They claimed to see something that can't be seen under the microscope, and until about the year 2000, biologists just absolutely
had complete faith in that cluster of assertions about immutability of traits, the Gregor Mendel
theory of inheritance, which was essentially designed to counter Darwin and Lamarck and
evolutionary thinking. Nothing evolves if you have eternal parts that are constantly
coming back in different proportions.
Thank you for that. We won't keep you too much longer, Ray. So just to do some Q&As
and Georgie, interrupt at any time. Okay, so our first question here is,
can you ask Ray, what is an electron?
What do they look like?
What are they made of?
That's something that a good chemistry professor
or biologist might actually consider.
But the physics establishment insists that it's a matter of a verbal set of
definitions and they won't tolerate such questions as how to imagine in a
realistic way what is an electron and what is it doing and how does it do it and what does resonance
mean?
They say resonance is a matter between an electron and a nucleus and if you absorb energy
from the environment or give it back, it's a matter of changing the relation between
the electron and the
nucleus. They don't want to have any images of how the wave front of an electromagnetic
field approaching the nucleus and the electron, what happens at that interaction. It's sort of an all-or-nothing. You have to
accept your definition and not think very much about it because when you
think about it and actually do experiments, you violate their essential
definitions. For example, a German researcher, Helmut Schultz, I think his name was, put a laser beam horizontally
through a thin crystal, inserted in the electron beam of an electron microscope, and an inert,
I think aluminum oxide field for the electrons to hit, no film or phosphor.
So the electrons hitting the field shouldn't have done anything visible.
But the color of laser going perpendicular really through the crystal added a resonant
frequency to supposedly a beam of pure electrons and an electron supposedly resonates
only with reference to its nucleus but the beam coming through the crystal in
this experiment broke up into blue spots on the inert target area, showing that
the laser energy was being absorbed by the electron itself, not an atom
electron system, but the electron itself hitting a target somehow released the energy that
it had resonated with.
That has been repeated, the experiment has been done different times and it represents something
true about reality but it totally undermines the whole official physics doctrine about
what an electron is.
So is an electron essentially a standing wave in the neutrino sea?
Yeah, yeah, it's whatever that means. Well, I mean, well, it's a wave, it's a wave object,
if you if you can call it that. It's not a point like particle, which is what they call
it. And the neutrino sea itself is... Is waves. Yeah, hard, hard to visualize. Great stuff.
Thank you for that. Okay. Can you ask him if he has heard of Walter Kilner? And if so,
what he thinks about his use of di-cyanin to observe the observe the human aura?
I haven't heard of it.
Can you comment on the aura? Is that just an extension of like field theory or these
bioelectric fields around us?
I suspect that people are actually seeing that field. At the time, I was having my very intense electrical fields. A psychic
that I didn't know but was visiting, a roommate, told my roommate that I had a
very weird aura. When she went through the room, she seemed to be cringing, like there was avoiding heat coming off me or something.
That's what Aphrodite noticed. That's why you guys had such a good connection.
Yeah.
Could it be a projection of the hologram that the brain creates of reality as a model inside
the organism? So it just extends just a little bit outside of the body.
Yeah, yeah. I think other organisms can tune in and get the picture.
Okay, what does Ray see in his mind
when he thinks of the cell?
A series of things, cells that I have seen.
Well, like those new elaborate kind of digital images
where they're all like, looks like something,
somebody threw something against the wall
and it's kind of like a spatter thing.
Is that the image that you have?
No, I think of them as little personalities.
What, like, how do you explain the discrepancy of thinking of them as these round things
and then those new photos of them being kind of these scatter things? Or are both of those
incorrect interpretations?
Yeah, each cell has its field and like Ortega-Gasset said of a person that I am, I am, my
circumstance, the cell is in the same situation as a person
itself and its circumstance are identical. So as soon as the
circumstance changes, the cell is no longer what it was.
Appreciate that, Georgie, interrupt anytime. Can Dr. Pete
elaborate on a bioenergetic view
of sex determination during embryonic development?
Would the mother's hormonal environment
play a big role in the process?
Yeah, yeah, temperature, hormones,
stress hormones in particular,
in fish and reptiles and birds even,
the temperature is very essential to developing the ratio.
So it depends on temperature, right? Like alligators, when they lay eggs, if it's hot, it's mostly males?
Yeah, and chickens, the same thing. Early in the season, I forget which way it is, but it's a balance that's beneficial to have lots of females relative
to males when conditions are going to be optimal.
Do you think the high ratio of females to males, do you think that's nature's essentially
protective mechanism to the species?
I mean, protecting the species from disappearing if the environment is not good, it's better
to have more females than males,
because one male can essentially ensure the continuation,
but if you have equal amount or more males,
it becomes more difficult to reproduce.
Yeah, I think so.
Okay, another one here.
So as an extension, the recent statistics
that we're seeing all over the world,
that a lot more girls are being born,
aside from endocrine disruptors
that are known to be estrogenic,
and that can cause it,
could it also be a sign that the conditions
are deteriorating in our environment
and the human race basically is producing more women
in order to have a higher chance of survival?
That sounds very reasonable.
You just reminded me of something.
That IQ drop of kids that were born in 2020,
is this gonna result in a profoundly stupid society
in the next 10, 20 years?
Yeah, there was a... Have you read Ernest Sternglass's books or articles? He studied the effects of radiation on miscarriages and the ratio of boys surviving and so on. And
boys surviving and so on. And he shows that at the peak atmospheric contamination from the 1963 bomb competition, atmospheric testing of nuclear bombs, 18 years later, the academic
scores of all sorts, the, what's the standard exam that high school... Anyway, the average score went down and the
genetic people said that's because more poor people are taking the test. But he showed
very clearly that looking at just the highest scoring portion of the population,
that the greatest decrease,
18 years after the radiation peak,
the greatest decrease was in the highest scoring category.
So it lowered the average,
but it even more drastically knocked out
the exceptionally competent kids of that age.
You've read about the, they call it the Flynn effect, right?
The rising IQ scores throughout most of the 20th century,
then in the 90s, they plateaued,
and after 2000, they've been steadily dropping.
Yeah, even though some countries show lately
that the ratio of the brain to the body weight and height
has decreased in several countries.
And that's not even-
Were these developed countries or-
Yeah, Germany was one of them.
Oh, wow.
Not even accounting for the indefinite mRNA vaccines
these kids are gonna have to deal with.
Okay, here's another one.
Are Sheldrake's morphic fields
and Vernadsky's noosphere the same thing?
Yeah, they could be.
fields and Vernadsky's noosphere the of the ending of the Second World War.
He was surrounded by destruction and death, but he said he was confident that the world
would find a way out of it by increasing its metabolic rate, accumulating carbon dioxide, warming things up, making brains
get bigger, and making plants grow faster, everything working
more intensely. And the noosphere idea is the basic
thing that we're all headed in that direction, just because of
the nature of the universe.
Did Russian science incorporate, like, Vernadsky's geocosmic realism into their thinking?
Yeah, a large part of the establishment did.
Do you think he's—oh, sorry, go ahead.
There were the dogmatic—I think of them as the Hegelian Marxists, the ones that thought the dialectic was some
mysterious thing.
But the average, intelligent, well-read Russian biologist and scientists in general have that sort of an emergence orientation that
it's part of the Marxist meaning of the dialectic, but it goes with an optimistic view of what
the cosmos is all about.
Amazing.
Thank you for that.
Give me a second here.
Okay. Ray has previously mentioned how our ruling class
Damaged are in the 20th century and highlighted the creation of Rockefeller ghost art if a counterculture painting movement was to start today
What themes styles or subjects would Ray like to see captured or communicated many? Thanks from Australia
I I think a little bit of the realism of Franz
Hals, the perceiving interesting things in people, anything that is a worthwhile insight
about the nature of people and their interactions. Franz Hals was very confident at capturing such things.
Yeah, but do you mention him in General of Energy in 1994?
You said that, what do you like,
it's like more alive, his paintings?
They were not just like a static, boring view of the person,
or they reflected something about their personality?
Yeah, he could perceive intensely enough
that he could capture instantaneous things that represented much more of
the person than a photograph would have. His paintings are, you can easily see that when
you're looking at his paintings. Okay. Okay, we'll wrap it up here very soon. Okay. Does
Ray think starch is responsible for a change in personality towards war and conquer that has caused
the atrocities since the beginning of agriculture?
It goes with malnutrition. The high starch diets end up
tending to be deficient in some of the essential nutrients. High phosphate,
stress-inducing things that make people irritable and authoritarian.
High serotonin outcome
of the inflammatory diet.
Great stuff, and Georgie, interrupt me at any point here.
Just a few more here.
Okay, what is the cost of getting drunk occasionally,
like blackout, passed out in the front yard, naked, drunk?
Like five times a year, not financially,
but like on your health and longevity?
I think it's very stressful to lose consciousness.
Maybe you told somebody in email a long time ago that it like greatly depletes
your liver glycogen and it would take multiple days to recover.
That's that's my experience.
Like drinking is never worth it because I'll feel so awful the next few days.
And so it just affects some people more than others
based on their ability to store liver glycogen, do you think?
Yeah, I think so.
Wouldn't taking a hefty dose of progesterone largely replicate the effects of getting drunk?
It increases your ability to store glycogen so it doesn't have any long-term negative
effects but when I accidentally overdose on it and the coordination of my hands and feet was
impossible for a while. But when I deliberately took a very large amount
because I had a bad migraine, I went with the euphoria, simply went to sleep in
about two minutes and had no more headache. But when it comes on accidentally and you
are hurt, you should be able to use your hands and feet.
It's embarrassing.
OK, let me see one more advertisement, then we'll close out the show here.
OK, so you can purchase Ray's newsletter for $30 for 12 issues
over three years, four times a year.
You can purchase his book at a books at Ray Peat's
by emailing Ray Peatsletter at gmail.com
from PMS to menopause, progesterone and orthomolecular medicine, gender of energy,
money and tissue, nutrition for women. And then if you want to purchase progesterone,
progestease, specifically from Ketogen, email katharine at ketogen at gmail.com.
Each bottle contains 3,400 milligrams of progesterone. And then Ray, again,
people hate when I ask you to speculate, but what do you think we're in store for in 2022?
I think the resistors are going to put up more and more resistance, but Bill Gates has already
said that the people are working on a vaccine for the Marburg hemorrhagic fever virus, which is
similar to the Ebola virus and kills up to 90% of the
people that infects and he says that is likely to be the next epidemic and since
they are about ready to have a vaccine for it I think he might be right as soon
as a vaccine is able to come to market at a profit of half a trillion dollars, then we can have
the Marburg epidemic.
I think the resistance is gaining faster than the clever World Economic Forum schemers can
dream up catastrophes to happen to us.
But if this Warburg virus, if it's so deadly, just like Ebola, then it can't really be a pandemic
because it's going to kill most of the host
before it has a chance to spread, right?
How would you have a pandemic with that?
It's just scarier, and that's all that's needed
is to have a vaccine that is going to save everyone,
and all it has to do is kill a few dozen people that they didn't want anyway
and then they can sell a trillion dollars worth of vaccines. It'll probably be much more easy to
mandate because they'll be look this is truly deadly don't resist because COVID is nothing
compared to this. Yeah. But you're saying they could actually release something harmful not like
COVID being a mild type of thing, but this actually
being harmful?
Yeah, since so many people have caught on that don't want the vaccine and realize that
the vaccine mortality goes up the first month after being vaccinated, higher than not receiving
a vaccine, that awareness is getting out. And so they need something really to scare people, show people bleed
bleeding out of their eyes and ears and a real horror show.
Yeah, that would do it. And you so this second act, you think it
was strategic in making it even more gruesome?
Yeah, I think that's why they're interested in it.
Okay, well, we have that look forward to in 2022.
Very, very excited about that.
Can't wait.
Okay, Ray, I stay on the line.
Guys, thank you so much for hanging out.
Sincerely appreciate this year.
Other than being a total horror show, I've had fun doing this podcast.
And Georgie and Ray, you guys always make it really special.
And these have been my anchor this year of doing these.
I sincerely appreciate all the viewership.
And you guys are just a great, great audience.
And you guys always give positive feedback.
And so I sincerely appreciate it.
So Georgie Dinkov, thank you so much.
And Ray, thank you so much.
Just it's been really incredible.
And I can't wait to continue to do it in 2022.
So Ray, stay on the line and guys, have a safe weekend.
We'll talk to you guys soon and have a good New Year's and peace out.
22. So right stay on the line and guys have a safe weekend. We'll talk to you guys soon and have a good New Year's and
peace out. Bye everyone.